Main field of study
Computer Science and Engineering, Computer Science
Course level
First cycle
Advancement level
G2F
Specific information
Can not be included in the degree together with TDDD33.

Course offered for
Master of Science in Chemical Biology
Master of Science in Mechanical Engineering
Master of Science in Engineering Biology
Master of Science in Information Technology
Master of Science in Energy - Environment - Management
Master of Science in Design and Product Development
Master of Science in Industrial Engineering and Management - International
Master of Science in Industrial Engineering and Management
Master's Programme in Mechanical Engineering
Master's Programme in Computer Science
Master's Programme in Cybersecurity
Prerequisites
Skill in one imperative, object-oriented or functional programming language.

Intended learning outcomes
After the course, the student should be able to:

use basic language constructs and the language's standard library
use design principles, methods and techniques used in object-oriented programming to construct programs that solve given problems
Course content
Programming: Creating algorithms and problem solving.
Syntax: C++ language features including control statements, operators and types, references, pointers, exceptions, classes, functions, dynamic memory, templates, inheritance, polymorphism and the standard template library.
Tools: Linux terminal based programming environment with program editor, compiler, debugger and versioning system.
Teaching and working methods
The course consists of:

A set of lectures introducing each of the areas of C++ language that we cover. Participating in lectures, lessons and labs is essential to gain all course content.
A set of computer laborations performed in pairs.
Self studies in order to prepare and complete each laboration on time.
A final individual computer exam with problems covering the topics discussed at lectures, lessons and labs.
The course runs over the entire autumn semester.

Examination
UPG1	Programming assignments	4 credits	U, G
DAT1	Computer examination	2 credits	U, 3, 4, 5
Grades for examination modules are decided in accordance with the assessment criteria presented at the start of the course.

Grades
Four-grade scale, LiU, U, 3, 4, 5
Other information
Supplementary courses
Advanced Programming in C++

About teaching and examination language
The teaching language is presented in the Overview tab for each course. The examination language relates to the teaching language as follows: 

If teaching language is “Swedish”, the course as a whole could be given in Swedish, or partly in English. Examination language is Swedish, but parts of the examination can be in English.
If teaching language is “English”, the course as a whole is taught in English. Examination language is English.
If teaching language is “Swedish/English”, the course as a whole will be taught in English if students without prior knowledge of the Swedish language participate. Examination language is Swedish or English depending on teaching language.
Other
The course is conducted in such a way that there are equal opportunities with regard to sex, transgender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion or other belief, disability, sexual orientation and age.

The planning and implementation of a course should correspond to the course syllabus. The course evaluation should therefore be conducted with the course syllabus as a starting point. 

The course is campus-based at the location specified for the course, unless otherwise stated under “Teaching and working methods”. Please note, in a campus-based course occasional remote sessions could be included.  

Department
Institutionen för datavetenskap
Course literature
Compulsory literature
Websites
Course homepage https://www.ida.liu.se/~TDDE18
Other
C++ Primer (5th edition or later) by Lippman, Lajoie and Moo, or other relevant book covering C++2011 standard. See course homepage for further material and recommendations.

Additional literature
Books
Lippman, Stanley B., Lajoie, Josée, Moo, Barbara E., (2013) C++ primer. 5. ed. Upper Saddle River, N.J. : Addison-Wesley, 2013
ISBN: 0321714113, 9780321714114
Stroustrup, Bjarne, (2014) Programming : principles and practice using C++ 2. ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ [u.a.] : Addison-Wesley, 2014
ISBN: 9780321992789, 0321992784
Websites
C++ reference https://en.cppreference.com/